There are many debates in life
that don’t really have answers.
Could LeBron have beaten
Michael Jordan?
Could Mike Tyson have beaten
Muhammad Ali?
Could Bert beat Ernie?
I know they’re friends,
but there’s real anger there,
folks.
And, of course, one
of the biggest questions of all:
could Donald Trump
have beaten Obama in a race?
Not a footrace. We know
the answer to that question.
A campaign race.
And we’ll never really know.
But thanks to this year’s
midterm elections,
we get to see what
a race between the two of them
might have been like.
Because this weekend,
with just eight days...
with just eight weeks.
Not eight days. You guys
are like, "Eight days away?
It’s not eight days away."
Yeah. Because this weekend,
with just eight weeks
until voting day,
the former president decided
it was time
to get back in the ring.
Tonight, Trump versus Obama.
The former president
blasting his successor by name
in a rare and fiery
midterm message.
By the time I left office,
household income
was near its all-time high,
and the uninsured rate
had hit an all-time low,
and wages were rising,
and poverty rates were falling.
I mention all this
just so when you hear
how great the economy’s doing
right now,
let’s just remember
when this recovery started.
(cheering and applause)
Oh!
You guys...
you guys realize
what this means, right?
It’s on.
President Obama
versus President Trump.
The leader versus the tweeter.
Yes We Can versus way too tan.
And you know Donald Trump’s
not gonna stand by
and let someone take credit
for their own achievements.
No, no, no.
He’s gonna push back,
and he’s gonna do it with flair.
So... I have a list,
and the list goes on and on.
It’s four pages of things
that the Trump administration
has accomplished
in a short period of time.
Each dot is a thing, okay?
And some of those things
are very big things.
And then I have
three more pages,
two more pages just like this.
Look. Okay?
But isn’t this much...
isn’t this much more exciting
than listening
to President Obama speak?
Yeah, I guess.
I guess this is exciting--
the same way
I’m sure it was exciting
to be on the plane that Sully
landed on the Hudson River.
It was like,
"I think we’re all gonna be die,
but it’s gonna be a movie!"
Because seeing Trump and Obama
back-to-back
really shows the contrast
between these two.
Right? They couldn’t
be more different.
It’s like night and day,
like ebony and anarchy.
I mean, listen...
listen to how they each talked
about health care.
Their sabotage
of the Affordable Care Act
has already cost more
than three million Americans
their health insurance.
And if they’re still in power
next fall,
you better believe
they’re coming at it again.
"What happens," I said,
"if the entire world
"decides to go to California
"because they get
free health care,
free medical care
and free education?"
California
has just increased in size
to 500 million people.
(audience shouting indistinctly)
California has just become
one really large person.
What you talkin’ ’bout, Willis?
I’ve heard a lot of criticisms
about Obamacare,
but I can safely say
I’ve never heard
that it’s gonna morph a state
into a very giant person.
-Like...
-(cheering and applause)
like, what does that even mean?
And... and while,
while most people
would prefer a president
who’s articulate
and has a command of the issues,
there are times
when you have to admit
it’s definitely more fun
to watch Trump.
Each time we painstakingly pull
ourselves closer
to our founding ideals,
that all of us
are created equal,
the status quo pushes back.
Sometimes the backlash
comes from people
who are genuinely,
if wrongly, fearful of change.
He said, uh,
"What’d you think
of President Obama’s speech?"
And I said,
"I-I’m sorry. I watched it,
but I fell asleep."
(laughter, whooping)
I found he’s very good,
very good for sleeping.
I-I hate to say it,
but Donald Trump is right.
Obama is great for sleeping.
Because when he was president,
we all slept so good.
-So good.
-(cheering and applause)
But now,
now that Trump’s in charge,
we all lie in bed awake
every night trying to figure out
how the (bleep) California
turned into a giant man.
Does he get one vote
in the Senate?
All the people inside of him,
did they leave
before it happened?
So many questions!
I can’t sleep!
And, now, look,
Trump may have beaten Obama
on the entertainment part,
but when both men commented
on last week’s secret house--
White House op-ed
in The New York Times,
it is safe to say
that Obama beat Trump
on the English part.
There are people
inside the White House
who secretly aren’t following
the president’s orders.
(laughter, applause)
That is not a check.
They’re not doing us a service
by actively promoting 90%
of the crazy stuff
that’s coming out of this
White House and then saying,
"Don’t worry, we’re preventing
the other ten percent."
The latest act of resistance
is the op-ed published
in the failing New York Times
by an anomish,
really, an anomynish,
gutless coward.
(laughter)
(whooping)
Yo. Yo.
I can honestly listen
to Trump try to say "anomynish"
for the rest of my life.
It sounds look
a dope new Migos track.
Just like...
♪ Monymish ♪
♪ Mamaminin, amonymish ♪
♪ Amonamymish,
anomamonamymish. ♪
And, please, please, don’t get
me wrong, don’t get me wrong.
Obama’s not always
in professor mode, right?
When he needs to, he knows
how to hit Trump where it hurts.
We’re supposed to stand up
to discrimination.
And we’re sure as heck
supposed to stand up clearly
and unequivocally
to Nazi sympathizers.
(cheering and applause)
How hard can that be,
saying that Nazis are bad?
(laughter)
Yeah! Obama’s got a good point.
Just say it, Trump.
Nashis are-- Sorry.
Nashis are-- I guess there’s
fine people on both sides.
Look, I’ll be honest.
I don’t know
why Obama’s wasting
his intellect on Trump.
Like, we’re living
in Trump’s world now, right?
This is not the time
for some well-crafted speech
that appeals
to our higher nature.
This is time for a roast, Obama.
Obama should just be
on the campaign trail
dissing Trump every day.
’Cause Trump knows how to deal
with nerds. But what
he can’t handle is swag.
Yeah. Obama should just be
out there, like,
"Uh, this guy, uh,
can’t even say ’anonymous.’
"Uh, I remember when presidents
could speak the language
of the countries
they were from."
(cheering and applause)
He should just roast him!
(stammers) He should--
he should just be like, be like,
"Uh, Trump-Trump’s presidency,
uh, such a disaster,
"it makes me glad I still have
my Kenyan citizenship.
"Uh, and, uh,
"and did you folks,
uh, read the op-ed?
"Uh, nobody respects this guy.
"Uh, I bet they don’t
even take his orders
"at the McDonald’s
drive-through.
"Uh, he says, ’Uh, I’ll have
the Chicken McNuggets.’
They say, ’Bitch,
you’re getting the salad.’"